+++
title = "Is Dns Dying"
Categories = []
+++
A thought occurred to me last week while watching a co-worker navigate his way to a webpage. Rather than actually type the website&#8217;s name in the browser&#8217;s address bar (which he knew) and navigating to the specific page he wanted to see, he went to Google and typed in a few keywords, hit enter, and the specific webpage he wanted was 2nd or 3rd in the list.  I noticed I did the same thing later on that week.  I needed to register an AppleCare support agreement.  Rather than browse to www.apple.com, click on Support, Register & View Applecare, Register a new agreement, I just went to www.google.com, typed in &#8220;register applecare&#8221;, and the first result took me where I needed to go & I got there quicker too.

<!--more-->

A large part of this behavior can be credited to the effectiveness of search engines today.  A decade or so ago, I&#8217;m sure people would most likely prefer to browse to the website&#8217;s root URL rather than use a search engine as a shortcut to get there.  This is probably because search engines then just weren&#8217;t anywhere nearly as good as they are now.  Today, we can see search results of things happening in the world in *real time*.  That just goes to show how far things have come.  It&#8217;s also interesting to me to wonder where they&#8217;re going.  We can safely assume searching isn&#8217;t going anywhere anytime soon.  It might take new forms, but the idea will be the same:  People want easy and efficient ways to tell a computer what to do.

Take the way I use my Macbook Pro for example.  I have a program called <a href="http://www.blacktree.com/" target="_blank">Quicksilver</a> installed, which is like a swiss army knife for invoking actions, or &#8220;doing things&#8221;, on the laptop.  Say I want to launch an app that&#8217;s not in my dock.  I&#8217;ll hit CTRL+SPACE and start typing the app I want, which shows up in half a second, then I hit enter and it opens.  To me, that is a lot more efficient than clicking my way through Finder to find the app I want.  I think this type of behavior is going to become a lot more prevalent in the coming years of the digital world.  Manually browsing via menus & shortcuts are a thing of the past.  I will admit, I even use Quicksilver to launch apps that are already in my dock!  It&#8217;s just that engrained in my thought process.  We&#8217;re coming into the digital age where we can just tell a computer what we want and it produces results.

So what of DNS?  I understand it&#8217;s tightly woven into the very fabric of the IT world&#8230; a lot of things just won&#8217;t work without it.  Does the end user care?  Probably not.  If you allow yourself to imagine for a minute, how much easier would IT be if it didn&#8217;t have to rely on DNS?  DNS was created to provide a user-friendly way to remember how to get to a particular computer because no way could everyone remember the particular IP address for each individual computer.  With the way things are going, it seems all you need is a good search engine and a way to set specific metadata or keywords that tells the search engine what you are.  This doesn&#8217;t have to just be limited to web browsing.  I can see it taking place of anything and everything we use DNS for.  All you need is a kind of a database that gathers and collects these metadata of what a computer is or does, then other computers will be able to easily find it just by having the user type in what he/she wants to do.  The type of service would be discovered, and it would trigger the appropriate action on the operating system automatically.  A lot of you might be thinking, &#8220;that sounds awfully insecure&#8221;&#8230; but it wouldn&#8217;t be!  Just imagine if you could restrict a particular user&#8217;s search results to only systems they&#8217;re supposed to have access to, such as on a corporate LAN for example.  Then the results, of course, would have to be verified by some sort of two-factor or certificate based authentication, before triggering the operating system behavior.  All the end user would have had to do was type &#8220;accounting file server&#8221; in a search box, and be automatically connected once verifying and choosing the results.  There&#8217;s a lot more to consider than just that, of course&#8230; I&#8217;m just barely skimming the surface.

One thing&#8217;s for sure, it&#8217;s going to be interesting to see how search will continue to play a role in the future of IT.  Not just using search as a way to find information you want, but using search as a way to start a process of actions for what you want to do.  Almost sounds like the beginnings of Artificial Intelligence, doesn&#8217;t it?  :)
